Transaction Log Archival Backup
===============================

Setting up and managing this type of backup is rather complicated.  We
provide you with a script to make many things easier, but
understanding of the process is still desirable.  Please bookmark and
read the documentation at
<http://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.0/static/backup-online.html>.


Theory
------

Broadly speaking, the backup process involves the following phases:

0. Designate room for the archive.

For the purpose of this document we will assume the location
/var/lib/pgsql/backup.  Naturally, this backup location should be as
far away as possible from the data area at /var/lib/pgsql/data to
ensure they are not destroyed together.  (If you have them both on the
Netapp Filer, that is OK.)  Do not put the backup inside of the data
area; that will make everything terribly complicated.

1. Configure the archival.

This involves changing the server configuration file parameter
archive_command to the shell command done to do the setup.

2. Do a base backup.

A base backup is a tarball (or some other copy) of the data area taken
from the file system while the system is in special backup mode.  (No
file system snapshot functionality is required for this.)

3. Save the current log segment.

Log segments are only archived when they are full (16 MB).  In case
the data area is lost (hardware failure etc.), data in segments that
were not archived is lost (i.e., the last few transactions before the
incident).  If the load on the system is such that segments fill
slowly, it is advisable to specially copy the currently active
segments to a safe place using a cron job.

4. Clean up.

After each base backup, log segments archived before that base backup
can be discarded to free the disk space.  The exact conditions under
which this can be done are explained in the documentation.


Practice
--------

To simplify this process, the attached script pg_backup_ctl automates
these tasks.  Just copy the script to a convenient place (perhaps
/usr/local/bin).  The script should be run as the postgres user.  The
general usage is:

$ pg_backup_ctl -h HOST -p PORT -U USER -A ARCHIVEDIR COMMAND

The host, port, and user name can usually be omitted, and we don't
include them in the examples below.  Details on the command follow.

0. Although not officially required, the backup process that we
propose uses the following subdirectories for various parts of the
backup to make things clearer:

base/ -- base backups
current/ -- backup of the currently active log segment
log/ -- backup of the completed log segments

1. To set up the archival process, run the following command:

pg_backup_ctl -A /var/lib/pgsql/backup setup

This adjusts the server configuration file as required and reloads the
server configuration.  After a while (assuming there is database
activity), you should be seeing files appearing in
/var/lib/pgsql/backup/log.

2. To do a base backup, run the following command:

pg_backup_ctl -A /var/lib/pgsql/backup basebackup

This will put the base backup at
/var/lib/pgsql/backup/base/basebackup-$timestamp.tar.gz.

You should run this command from a cron job (mind the postgres user)
once a night.  (Once a week or other intervals are also conceivable
but will lead to huge recovery times for your data volume.)

You could replace this step by taking a file system snapshot.  This
might save space and time but would otherwise be functionally
equivalent.  You can also alter the script accordingly.  Look into the
line that calls the tar program.

3. To copy the current log segment(s), run the following command:

pg_backup_ctl -A /var/lib/pgsql/backup currentbackup

This will copy the required files into /var/lib/pgsql/backup/current/
and remove any older "current" files.

One typically runs this command from a cron job once a minute (or
whatever the desired backup frequency).  It is quite possible that
your data volume will cause log segments to fill up on the order of
minutes anyway, so this step can then be omitted.

4. To clean up, run the following command:

pg_backup_ctl -A /var/lib/pgsql/backup cleanup

This will remove files from /var/lib/pgsql/backup/log/ that are no
longer needed.  This can be run as often as you like, but it is best
run from a cron job after the base backup (for best effect not
immediately after, perhaps one hour later).

This will only clean up old log segments.  Old base backups have to be
removed manually.


Recovery
--------

The recovery process is detailed in the documentation.  Broadly
speaking it works like this:

1. Stop the server.

2. Move the current data directory to a safe location.  (If the
current data directory was lost, omit this.)

3. Delete everything in the data directory (if you have not moved it
away already).

4. Restore the base backup (that is, untar the base backup tarball to
where the data directory that you just removed was).

5. Create the directories pg_xlog/ and pg_xlog/archive_status/ in the
data directory that you just untarred.  (If you do not use our
provided tar-based base backup, make sure that these directories now
exist and are empty.)

6. Copy the current log segments from /var/lib/pgsql/backup/current/
to pg_xlog.  If you moved the current data directory away in step 2,
you will also have the current log segments in that directory's
pg_xlog subdirectory.  It may be that these are more up to date then
those in backup/current/, depending on how often that cron job runs.
You need to exercise judgement here depending on the kind of crash or
incident that you want to recover from.

7. Create a file recovery.conf in the new data directory with the
following contents:

recovery_command = 'cp /var/lib/pgsql/backup/log/%f "%p"'

Other possible settings to do point-in-time recovery (as opposed to
recovering to the very end of the log, as we're doing now) are
detailed in the documentation at
<http://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.0/static/backup-online.html#RECOVERY-CONFIG-SETTINGS>.

8. Start the server.

9. Connect to the server and check out whether the database is in the
state you like.


Naturally, this process should be tested and a couple of people should
be trained so that this process can be performed rapidly in case of a
problem.  Please let us know if we can assist you further on this
matter.
